# Scroll

Manage a local list of titles you've seen.

## Rationale

The purpose of Scroll is to provide a simple interface for maintaining a list of titles (shows, movies, books, etc.) you've seen. If you consume a lot of entertainment or already maintain a list while spending a considerable amount of time on it, this app is for you!

The average person watching a movie or reading a novel will not need to record their progress since it's often casual. The brain is good enough since they're not concerned about when they started and finished, are fine with the details they get from the media itself (e.g. a book's cover and the back description), and often rely on more simple methods of keeping track (for a book, a bookmark; for a movie, a timestamp). Best of all, if they pick up a title again by mistake, it's likely they've forgotten most of the story, so repeating it allows them to experience it again.

For people who consume more than average, however, having a fit method for recording titles is important: progress, start and end dates, rating, grouping, notes, and more are basic requirements. As an avid anime watcher and manga reader (though, Scroll works for any title format), sites like [AniList](https://anilist.co/), [MyAnimeList](https://myanimelist.net/), [AniDB](https://anidb.net/), [Anime-Planet](https://anime-planet.com/), [Kitsu](https://kitsu.io/), [Baka-Updates](https://www.mangaupdates.com), <!-- maybe too many? -->  and others are all platforms trying to solve this problem.

Where all of these platforms and services fall short is how they expect you to use them, as most of them are based on a design where titles are primarily static (in that you can't change most of their details, like name, cover, episode/chapter count, etc.), entries are associated with a (usually) predefined list which assigns them meaning (usually in the form of a status, like planning, watching/reading, completed, paused, or dropped), and are expected to be consumed linearly. As a result, many people cannot truly describe their list through these services and are encouraged to consume more to satisfy it instead. In other words, instead of the service working for you, you work for the service. This divide between users and the service manifests in more obvious forms, such as through ads and data collection (integrating with page elements, privacy, performance, etc.), as well as through more subtle means, such as by making every interaction sociable <!-- maybe a better word? --> (reimplementing many of the problems social media platforms artificially create). Spreadsheets solve all of these problems, but are optimized for managing data in a table format, as opposed to a graph backed by a proper user interface.

Scroll is an app which attempts to solve the problem of maintaining a list of titles in a user-aligned direction. The app is local and expects you to create data yourself, meaning your list, by default, is private and derives its fields from your input (e.g. a title's name, cover, description, contents, and more). Scroll makes great distinction for the kind of entities in the system, with an example being how a title is associated with a set of content. As a result, when creating entries for a title, users can specify a subset of content consumed in great detail—down to its essence (for episodes, its length; for chapters, how many pages)—as opposed to just a linear number. Finally, Scroll is developed for Apple's platforms, meaning while it supports less devices, it's optimized for the ones it does, performing how a native app should.

Scroll is currently in development and only supports macOS, but support for iOS and other Apple operating systems is planned for the future. There are also plans in the future to integrate with other services (primarily for importing and exporting data), but in an opt-in process to make procedures like comparing data (e.g. to pick the best one) simple. If you're interested in the project, consider giving the repository a star!